[New_Module] zos_user_info (#2526)
ansible-collections/ibm_zos_core: docs/source/modules/zos_user_info.rst

  :literal:`General` information is always retrieved.

  Invalid segments for the specified scope will be ignored.

  | **required**: False
  | **type**: list
  | **elements**: str
  | **choices**: dfp, tso, omvs, operparm, lang, csdata

Examples
--------

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

   
   - name: Get basic user profile info
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TESTU01
       scope: user

   - name: Get user profile info with segments
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TESTU01
       scope: user
       segments:
         - dfp
         - tso
         - omvs
         - operparm
         - lang
         - csdata

   - name: Get basic group profile info
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TSTGRP01
       scope: group

   - name: Get group profile info with DFP and OMVS segments
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TSTGRP01
       scope: group
       segments:
         - dfp
         - omvs

Return Values
-------------

cmd
  The TSO command that was executed.

  | **returned**: always
  | **type**: str
  | **sample**: LU TESTU01 TSO OMVS

profile

>   Dictionary containing the RACF profile information organized by segments.

Reviewer: Dictionary that contains the RACF profile information is organized by segments.

  Always includes base profile information (\ :literal:`general` and :literal:`group`\ /\ :literal:`users` sections).

>   Additional segments are only included if explicitly requested via the :emphasis:`segments` parameter.

Reviewer: Additional segments are included only if explicitly requested via the :emphasis:`segments` parameter.

  Each segment is a dictionary with key\-value pairs extracted from RACF output.

  The keys and values within each segment are dynamic and depend on what RACF returns.

>   Empty segments (where RACF returns "NO [SEGMENT] INFORMATION") will be empty dictionaries.

Reviewer: are empty dictionaries.

  | **returned**: success
  | **type**: dict

  general
    Base profile information that is always returned.

>     For user profiles, contains attributes like USER\-ID, NAME, DEFAULT\-GROUP, OWNER, CREATED, PASSDATE, PASS\-INTERVAL, ATTRIBUTES, etc.

Reviewer: For user profiles, it contains attributes like

>     For group profiles, contains attributes like OWNER, CREATED, SUPERIOR GROUP, INSTALLATION DATA, SUBGROUP(S), TERMUACC, UNIVERSAL, etc.

Reviewer: For group profiles, it contains attributes like OWNER,

                  "LAST-CONNECT": "2026/04/29",
                  "RESUME DATE": "NONE",
                  "REVOKE DATE": "NONE"
              }
          }

  users
    Connected user information for group profiles.

    Dictionary where each key is a username and the value contains connection attributes.

    Contains attributes like ACCESS, ACCESS COUNT, UNIVERSAL ACCESS, REVOKE DATE, RESUME DATE, CONNECT ATTRIBUTES, etc.

    Only returned when scope is :literal:`group`.

    | **returned**: when scope is group
    | **type**: dict
    | **sample**:

      .. code-block:: json

          {
              "TESTU01": {
                  "ACCESS": "JOIN",
                  "ACCESS COUNT": "000047",
                  "RESUME DATE": "NONE",
                  "REVOKE DATE": "NONE",
                  "UNIVERSAL ACCESS": "READ"
              },
              "TESTU02": {
                  "ACCESS": "USE",
                  "ACCESS COUNT": "000012",
                  "UNIVERSAL ACCESS": "NONE"
              }
          }

  TSO
    TSO segment information (user profiles only).

    Contains dynamic key\-value pairs such as ACCTNUM, PROC, SIZE, MAXSIZE, JOBCLASS, MSGCLASS, etc.

>     The exact keys present depend on the user's TSO configuration.

Reviewer: The exact keys that are present depend on the TSO configuration of the user.

    Only returned when :literal:`tso` is included in the :emphasis:`segments` parameter.

    | **returned**: when scope is user and tso segment is requested
    | **type**: dict
    | **sample**:

      .. code-block:: json

          {
              "ACCTNUM": "33000",
              "COMMAND": "ISPF PANEL(ISR@390)",
              "HOLDCLASS": "H",
              "JOBCLASS": "A",
              "MAXSIZE": "00032768",
              "MSGCLASS": "X",
              "PROC": "IKJACCNT",
              "SIZE": "00016384",
              "SYSOUTCLASS": "A",
              "USERDATA": "E4F1"
          }

  OMVS
    OMVS segment information (user and group profiles).

    Contains dynamic key\-value pairs such as UID, HOME, PROGRAM, CPUTIMEMAX, ASSIZEMAX, etc.

>     The exact keys present depend on the OMVS configuration.

Reviewer: The exact keys that are present depend on the OMVS configuration.

    Only returned when :literal:`omvs` is included in the :emphasis:`segments` parameter.

    | **returned**: when omvs segment is requested
    | **type**: dict
    | **sample**:

      .. code-block:: json

          {
              "ASSIZEMAX": "NONE",
              "CPUTIMEMAX": "NONE",
              "HOME": "/u/testu01",
              "PROGRAM": "/bin/sh",
              "UID": "0000000201"
          }

  DFP
    DFP (Data Facility Product) segment information.

    Contains dynamic key\-value pairs related to data management such as MGMTCLAS, STORCLAS, DATACLAS, etc.

>     The exact keys present depend on the DFP configuration.

Reviewer: The exact keys that are present depend on the DPF configuration.

    Only returned when :literal:`dfp` is included in the :emphasis:`segments` parameter.

    | **returned**: when dfp segment is requested
    | **type**: dict
    | **sample**:

      .. code-block:: json

          {
              "DATACLAS": "DCEXTL",
              "MGMTCLAS": "STANDARD",
              "STORCLAS": "SCPERM"
          }

  OPERPARM
    OPERPARM segment information (user profiles only).

    Contains operator parameters such as STORAGE, AUTH, ALTGRP, AUTO, HC, INTIDS, LEVEL, etc.

    Some fields like MONITOR, MSCOPE, ROUTCODE are returned as lists when they contain multiple values.

>     The exact keys present depend on the operator configuration.

Reviewer: that are present

:github_url: https://github.com/ansible-collections/ibm_zos_core/blob/dev/plugins/modules/zos_user_info.py

.. _ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info_module:

zos_user_info -- Retrieve user and group profile information from RACF
======================================================================

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 1

Synopsis
--------
- Retrieve detailed information about RACF user and group profiles.

> - The module executes RACF LISTUSER or LISTGRP TSO commands and parses the output into structured data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The module runs the RACF LISTUSER or LISTGRP TSO commands and parses the output into structured data.
```

Author: Incorporated

> - This is an info module that does not make any changes to the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This module does not make any changes to the system.
```

Author: incorporated

Parameters
----------

name
  The RACF profile name to retrieve.

  For :emphasis:`profile\_type=user`\ , this must be a single user ID.

  For :emphasis:`profile\_type=group`\ , this must be a single group name.

>   The name is case\-insensitive and will be normalized to uppercase before execution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name is case\-insensitive and is normalized to uppercase before execution.
```

Author: incorporated

>   The name must be a single continuous string with no spaces or blank characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The name is a single continuous string with no spaces or blank characters.
```

Author: incorporated

     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: "TESTU01"
       profile_type: user
       segments:
         - tso
         - omvs

   - name: Get user profile with multiple segments
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: "TESTU01"
       profile_type: user
       segments:
         - tso
         - omvs
         - dfp
         - lang
         - operparm

   - name: Get user profile with all segments
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TESTU01
       profile_type: user
       segments:
         - dfp
         - tso
         - omvs
         - operparm
         - lang
         - csdata
         - cics
         - dce
         - eim
         - ovm
         - netview
         - nds
         - lnotes
         - workattr
         - proxy
         - kerb

   - name: Get basic group profile information
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TSTGRP01
       profile_type: group

   - name: Get group profile with multiple segments
     ibm.ibm_zos_core.zos_user_info:
       name: TSTGRP01
       profile_type: group
       segments:
         - dfp
         - omvs
         - ovm
         - csdata

Return Values
-------------

changed

>   Indicates whether any changes were made to the system (always false for info modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Indicates whether any changes were made to the system. Always ``false`` for info modules.
```

Author: incorporated 
```
Indicates whether any changes were made to the system. Always :literal:`false` for info modules.
```

  | **returned**: always
  | **type**: bool

cmd

>   The RACF command that was executed with tsocmd.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 The RACF command that was run with the tsocmd command.
```

Author: incorporated

  | **returned**: always
  | **type**: str
  | **sample**: LISTUSER TESTU01 TSO OMVS

rc

>   Return code from the RACF command execution. Returns 0 on success. Returns non\-zero on failure (e.g., 8 when profile not found).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Return code from the RACF command execution. Returns 0 on success, or a non-zero value on failure (for example, 8 when the profile is not found).
```

Author: incorporated

  | **returned**: always
  | **type**: int

stdout
  Standard output from the RACF command execution.

  | **returned**: always
  | **type**: str
  | **sample**: USER=TESTU01  NAME=TEST USER 01  OWNER=ADMIN01  CREATED=2025/01/10

stderr

>   Standard error from the RACF command execution, excluding the TSO command itself, which is available under :literal:`cmd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Standard error from the RACF command execution. The TSO command itself is not included; it is available in the ``cmd`` field.
```

Author: incorporated

  | **returned**: always
  | **type**: str

msg
  Error message describing the failure.

  | **returned**: failure
  | **type**: str
  | **sample**: Profile 'TESTU01' not found in RACF database

segments
  Dictionary of RACF profile information organized by segment.

  Always includes :literal:`base\_segment` and :literal:`group` or :literal:`users`. Additional segments are only present if specified in the :emphasis:`segments` option.

  Keys and values are dynamic based on RACF output. Segments with no data are returned as empty dictionaries.

  | **returned**: success
  | **type**: dict

  base_segment

>     Base profile information that is always returned regardless of the :emphasis:`segments` parameter. When :emphasis:`profile\_type=user`\ , contains user attributes such as :literal:`USER\-ID`\ , :literal:`NAME`\ , :literal:`DEFAULT\-GROUP`\ , :literal:`OWNER`\ , :literal:`CREATED`\ , :literal:`PASSDATE`\ , :literal:`PASS\-INTERVAL`\ , :literal:`ATTRIBUTES`\ , etc. When :emphasis:`profile\_type=group`\ , contains group attributes such as :literal:`OWNER`\ , :literal:`CREATED`\ , :literal:`SUPERIOR GROUP`\ , :literal:`INSTALLATION DATA`\ , :literal:`SUBGROUP(S`\ ), :literal:`TERMUACC`\ , :literal:`UNIVERSAL`\ , etc. The exact keys present are dynamic and depend on the profile's RACF configuration. :literal:`ATTRIBUTES` and :literal:`CLASS AUTHORIZATIONS` are always returned as lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Base profile information, always returned regardless of the :emphasis:segments parameter.

When :emphasis:profile_type=user\ , contains user attributes such as :literal:USER-ID\ , :literal:NAME\ , :literal:DEFAULT-GROUP\ , :literal:OWNER\ , :literal:CREATED\ , :literal:PASSDATE\ , :literal:PASS-INTERVAL\ , and :literal:ATTRIBUTES.

When :emphasis:profile_type=group\ , contains group attributes such as :literal:OWNER\ , :literal:CREATED\ , :literal:SUPERIOR GROUP\ , :literal:SUBGROUPS\ , and :literal:UNIVERSAL.

The exact keys present depend on the profile's RACF configuration. :literal:ATTRIBUTES and :literal:CLASS AUTHORIZATIONS are always returned as lists.
```

Author: incorporated
